# APIs: Load Balancing & Redundancy

_(c) AMWA 2016, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Registration API

* An HTTP load balancing proxy (such as HAProxy) may be inserted in front of multiple Registration API instances which share a common registry. In this instance the proxy is the entity advertised via DNS-SD (rather than individual Registration APIs).
* Multiple Registration APIs may exist as separate entities in a network, but with a common registry. Each API should be advertised via a separate DNS-SD record. Priorities may be defined for each of these APIs to determine an order of precedence for their usage by clients.

## Query API

* An HTTP load balancing proxy (such as HAProxy) may be inserted in front of multiple Query API instances which share a common registry. In this instance the proxy is the entity advertised via DNS-SD (rather than individual Query APIs).
* Multiple Query APIs may exist as separate entities in a network, but with a common registry. Each API should be advertised via a separate DNS-SD record. Priorities may be defined for each of these APIs to determine an order of precedence for their usage by clients.
* An HTTP cache layer may be used in front of a Query API instance to reduce the load on the system provided this cache is invalidated when resources held in the registry are changed.

## Node API

* An HTTP cache layer may be used in front of a Node API instance to reduce the load on the system (see note below on low powered devices).

### Low Powered Devices

Low powered Nodes may need to be deployed with an HTTP caching layer in front of them in some demanding use cases. It is suggested as a result that manufacturers of such devices provide the option for the user to manually replace the hostname used by the device in any 'href' attributes exposed in APIs and registrations. By replacing this hostname with the location of the cache layer, this load can be managed external to the device.
