# APIs: Common Keys

_(c) AMWA 2016, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

A number of common keys are used within NMOS APIs. Their definitions, required practices for interpretation and permitted values are described below.

## Version

Core resources such as Sources, Flows, Nodes etc. include a 'version' attribute. As properties of a given Flow or similar will change over its lifetime, the version identifies the instant at which this change took place. For example, if a vision mix transition occurred which resulted in a change to the 'parents' which make up a particular Flow, the 'version' should be modified to reflect the wall clock instant at which this change occurred.

The version is a nanosecond TAI timestamp represented as a string of the format: &lt;seconds&gt;:&lt;nanoseconds&gt;. Note the ':' as opposed to a '.', indicating that the value '1439299836:10' should be interpreted as 1439299836 seconds and 10 nanoseconds.

Combining the version with the resource's ID attribute creates a hash which can be used to uniquely identify a particular variant of a Source, Flow or similar.

## Label

Freeform human readable string to be used within user interfaces.

## Description

Freeform human readable string to be used within user interfaces.

## Format

A URN describing the data format of a video, audio or data flow.

| **Permitted Value**     | **Valid From API Version** |
|-------------------------|----------------------------|
| urn:x-nmos:format:video | v1.0                       |
| urn:x-nmos:format:audio | v1.0                       |
| urn:x-nmos:format:data  | v1.0                       |
| urn:x-nmos:format:mux   | v1.1                       |

See [Use of URNs](#use-of-urns) below for additional requirements regarding their handling.

## Transport

A URN describing the protocol used to send data (video, audio, data etc.) over a network.

Note: From v1.3 onwards, permitted transport types are not versioned and are instead defined via the [NMOS Parameter Registers](https://github.com/AMWA-TV/nmos-parameter-registers). Prior to v1.3, the following table applies.

| **Permitted Value**            | **Valid From API Version** |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------|
| urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp       | v1.0                       |
| urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp.mcast | v1.0                       |
| urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp.ucast | v1.0                       |
| urn:x-nmos:transport:dash      | v1.0                       |

For example, an RTP Transmitter sending to a multicast group should use the transport 'urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp.mcast', but a receiver supporting both unicast and multicast should present the transport 'urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp' to indicate its less restrictive state.

See [Use of URNs](#use-of-urns) below for additional requirements regarding their handling.

## Tags

A set of keys and values providing a means to filter resources based on particular categorisations. Each tag has a single key, but MAY have multiple values. Each tags SHOULD be interpreted using the comparison of a single key value pair, with the comparison being case-insensitive following the Unicode Simple Case Folding specification.

**Example: Tags Format**
```
{
  "tags": {
    "location": ["Salford", "Media City"],
    "studio": ["HQ1"],
    "recording": ["The Voice UK"]
  }
}
```

## Type (Devices)

A URN describing the role which a Device has within the production environment (such as camera, mixer, tally light etc.).

Note: From v1.3 onwards, permitted device types are not versioned and are instead defined via the [NMOS Parameter Registers](https://github.com/AMWA-TV/nmos-parameter-registers). Prior to v1.3, the following table applies.

| **Permitted Value**        | **Valid From API Version** |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|
| urn:x-nmos:device:generic  | v1.0                       |
| urn:x-nmos:device:pipeline | v1.0                       |

See [Use of URNs](#use-of-urns) below for additional requirements regarding their handling.

## Use of URNs

All Uniform Resource Names (URNs) specified within the scope of the NMOS specifications MUST use the namespace 'urn:x-nmos:'. Manufacturers MAY use their own namespaces to indicate values of URN which are not currently defined within the NMOS namespace.

Where a URN begins 'urn:x-nmos:' it MUST use the following construction:
*   The URN 'base' is a sequence of one or more names delimited by ':' characters, including the namespace
*   The URN MAY include one or more 'subclassifications'
*   The URN MAY include a version number

Subclassifications are defined as the portion of the URN which follows the first occurrence of a '.', but prior to any '/' character. By convention, URNs which begin 'urn:x-nmos:' will never include a further ':' after the first occurrence of a '.'.

For example, the URN root 'urn:x-nmos:transport:rtp' above has two subclassifications of 'ucast' and 'mcast'.

API clients interpreting URNs MUST correctly recognise any as-yet undefined subclassifications as being associated with the URN root which appears prior to the first '.' character.

For example, if filtering by the format 'urn:x-nmos:format:video', the filter is required to include any as-yet undefined subclassifications such as 'urn:x-nmos:format:video.raw'.

Versions are defined as the portion of the URN which follows the first occurrence of a '/', up to and including the remainder of the URN. Any '.' characters after this point indicate a version delimiter. By convention, URNS which begin 'urn:x-nmos:' will format the version as 'v<#MAJOR>.<#MINOR>' and should be handled as specified in [APIs](2.0.%20APIs.md).

For example, the URN 'urn:x-nmos:control:sr-ctrl/v1.0' can be separated into a root 'urn:x-nmos:control:sr-ctrl' and version 'v1.0'.

Query API clients MUST be tolerant to URNs which have not yet been defined, but which may be added in later API versions.
